Is the destiny of mankind controlled by some transcendental entity or law?
Is it like the hand of God hovering above?
At least it is true...
...that man has no control, even over his own will.
G-Guts?
Commander Guts?
Is it really you, Commander Guts?
Commander Guts!
Feel no shame about shape.
Weather changes their phrase.
Even mother will show you another way.
So put your glasses on.
Nothing will be wrong.
There's no blame. There's no fame.
It's up to you.
The first words should be found.
Whatever holds you back.
I... ...can... I can get it off.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you want.
I don't know why... Don't know why...
Don't know why you're afraid.
Tell me what... Tell me what... Tell me what you'd say.
I don't know why... Don't know why... Too late...
It's too late.
Confession
Guts...
Guts?
Is it possible?
The legendary commander...
There's no time to waste.
Don't you have a job to do?
Don't back off!
Get into battle formation and launch a counterattack!
Who cares if he killed a hundred men?
Their numbers are small.
Advance! Advance forward!
Those eyes...
They haven't changed.
It's no use. We don't stand a chance.
Damn it!
There's no choice! Retreat!
Don't let them get away!
Stop, don't jeopardize yourself!
But... we can't... Guts!
What the hell, guys!
Guts!
So you survived all this time, Rickert?
G-Guts...
Commander!
Commander Guts!
I knew it!
I knew you'd come back someday!
You guys...
There's no time to lose!
The enemy will return.
We must mobilize while it's dark.
Casca... We'll catch up later.
We should get moving now, just like she says.
In this past year, we've been cut down to a fifth of what we were before...
The Band of the Hawk can no longer be called an army.
Even so, it could be worse...
Without Casca, there would be nothing left of us at all...
On that fateful day a year ago...
We all gathered under Griffith's order.
We hadn't ridden our horses in a while.
And so we waited... But little did we know...
What's taking Griffith so long?
Everybody, get down!
All of a sudden, arrows came pouring down on us like rain.
It was the Midland army... Everything was in chaos...
We found out only after we had escaped...
...that Griffith had been captured and arrested for treason.
Griffith?
A year ago... It was the day after you left.
I can't believe it...
The Griffith we knew... Why?
After you left, Guts...
Griffith was very depressed...
If you ask me... I think it was because of you that Griffith...
Don't flatter yourself...
What happened to Griffith has absolutely nothing to do with you.
Nothing.
But you should have seen how Casca came through!
She had five serious wounds but still led us till the end of the battle!
And that was when we welcomed Casca as our leader.
Still, who would've thought...
...you'd be coming back just when we needed you most?
It goes to show that our luck hasn't run out yet.
We've been planning an operation, and we're about to carry it out.
An operation?
We're going to rescue Griffith.
All the guys left here are in dreadful shape.
Their hearts and bodies are covered with wounds...
But not one of them will even consider leaving us...
...even though no one's told them they have to stay.
All we have is courage and willpower... but in the end what can that do?
The ones who are left are Band of the Hawk members down to the bone...
It's not Griffith we are rescuing...
It's the Band of the Hawk that wouldn't exist without him.
It's good to be back...
Some things never change.
We're counting on you... ...Commander Guts.
You mean ex-Commander.
Corkus!
That bastard left us when we needed him the most!
How can any of you say he's one of us?
Corkus, that's too harsh!
You're nothing but an outsider now, through and through!
At least make things right, though... Got it?
Yeah... I hear you.
Guts...
Take care of... ...Casca.
That fateful day a year ago...
Casca spent three long days and nights lingering on the brink of death...
In the throes of nightmares she cried out, over and over...
...for Griffith...
...and you.
She's pushing herself more than she'll ever let on...
So...
Do something about it, will you?
The rest of us just aren't up to the task.
Quite impressive...
There's still life in those eyes of yours.
Don't worry.
I'm avoiding your vitals, so you're not in any mortal danger.
The king has ordered me to ensure you live at least another three years.
Youth can be so frightening...
...or perhaps I should say it's a marvel to behold!
Still, man must live in line with his standing, even a hero as great as you.
But it seems you were quite misguided!
I've been wondering about this unusual charm you're wearing.
But if it has no power to protect you, it's utterly useless!
Come with me. I want to talk to you.
What do you want?
Take your stance!
Hey, wait!
I said wait!
What the hell?
Hey, cut it out!
Don't patronize me!
Draw your sword!
What the hell's wrong with you?
We haven't seen each other in a year, damn it...
...and the first thing you do is attack me?
Why the hell did you come back now?
It's your fault!
You destroyed everything!
It's all your fault!
My fault?
That's right... Griffith and... The Band of the Hawk...
Everything...
It all went to hell because of you!
I did this?
How?
Because you left us...
Because you left Griffith!
No, that can't be right.
It's Griffith... The Griffith we both know...
What I did wouldn't be enough to bring Griffith down.
There's no way, don't you see?
Really... You're just a hopeless fool... ...aren't you?
I told you this once before!
Those striving to achieve greatness...
...must also carry a burden greater than anyone else.
Griffith...
...had to become stronger than the rest.
But...
Griffith is not a god...
Ideals and dreams alone aren't enough to satisfy a man's heart.
It was you who came along and made Griffith weak!
Griffith can't go on without you!
Impossible...
You could've dodged that attack easily...
What was I supposed to do?
L-Let go.
I did what I had to do, just like Griffith.
That's enough. Let go.
All I did was what needed to be done.
How else was I supposed to handle it?
Let go.
All right, just let go!
I know.
I understand.
The truth is...
...you're right.
But I can't take it...
I can't bear it...
If only I could change the way my heart feels, it'd be so much easier...
I'm not stupid...
I know that the quickest path...
...to the throne of Midland is by marrying Princess Charlotte.
I knew that all along.
And I knew that if it was up to Griffith, that would be the path he would take.
Somehow, I thought I could handle it.
Even if I couldn't stand by Griffith's side as a woman...
...I could at least stay near him as his sword...
That's what I wanted to believe.
But the day you left...
...it finally became clear to me.
The days that I had spent by Griffith's side were a thing of the past...
My dream had already ended.
The reason why I've kept us together...
...even if it's just a phantom hope...
...is because unless I cling on to them, I may lose my self.
But it doesn't matter now.
I can never be the woman of his life...
...or something that he treasures.
Preserving the crumbling dream of a man...
...whom I don't even know is alive or not...
It's too much... for me...
I'm so tired...
You take care of the rest.
Casca?
Damn it!
What are you thinking?
Listen to me!
Don't go near that cliff again!
I can't afford to be dragged down with you again!
Understood?
Fool.
What?
You're always getting hurt somewhere...
Always shedding blood because of me...
You...
Fool.
Such a fool.
The day you left... That was when I first realized...
After Griffith's first defeat at your hand, he was on his knees, devastated...
But you were the one I couldn't take my eyes off of...
As you walked away without so much as a backward glance...
I didn't want to accept those feelings of mine.
Because if I did, everything in my life since the moment I met Griffith...
...would have all been a lie.
I've always lived true to my heart...
That was the one thing I could be proud of.
Because that was the gift Griffith gave to me...
But...
I can change...
There just might be a place for me inside this man's soul...
Instead of only taking...
I might be able to give something back this time.
Guts...
Why don't you stay with us?
We'll rescue Griffith, and then we'll all be together, like before...
I can't.
I just want to put things back together. That's all.
I'll stay till we rescue Griffith and get the Band of the Hawk back on its feet...
But that's it...
I must continue my journey...
I'm through with drawing my sword for others...
And I won't hang on to someone else's dream anymore.
From now on, I'm going to fight my own battles.
How noble... I'm very impressed...
You're just like Griffith!
Your dream is everything to you!
Everything's always about you!
It doesn't matter to you if I'm here or not!
Hey!
Just go!
Go off and end up dead in a ditch somewhere for all I care...
Go off and die with your precious sword!
Come with me.
What?
You heard me... Come with me.
I don't know what the future will bring...
All I know is that I haven't held you long enough yet.
Fool!
I want to make love to you a hundred...
No, a thousand times more...
That's how I feel right now.
You fool.
What the...
If it weren't for my arm, I could have gone with you guys.
Don't be disappointed.
You'll be the first one to get a hug from Griffith when he comes back.
I'm counting on you, Guts.
Promise you'll bring him back safe.
Yeah.
On your horses!
We're splitting up into two units, and we'll be taking separate action.
Griffith's rescue unit shall now set off!
Let's go, boss!
Rescue unit... Depart for Midland!
Looking back, the morning comes.
Don't find your face in your glass.
Take the moonlight by the tail.
It's a rainy sight. You're shading.
What is that?
It's just the same.
What is trying your crown?
I'm spending my glass, walking back.
So wear my glass. You're fading.
I'm waiting so long.
I'm waiting...
Next Episode
As they wander through the never-ending darkness...
The last remaining flame is lit...
...in each of the souls who gather here now.
Do you believe?
Do you hate?
Do you love?
When will mankind awaken to the true sorrow of loss?
Infiltration